Create 2023-10-12-schedulers-landscape.md (#581)
kestra-io/docs: content/blogs/2023-10-12-schedulers-landscape.md

---

> title: "DollarU, OpCon, Control-M, Kestra, what you need to know to select the right scheduling platform "

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "DollarU, OpCon, Control-M vs. Kestra — how to choose the right scheduling platform"
```

> description: "Learn more about the scheduling landscape and the tools providing a more modern approach options"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "How the scheduling landscape has evolved in the last decade? Learn more about the differences between traditional schedulers and tools, such as Kestra, providing a more modern approach to orchestration and scheduling."
```

date: 2023-10-12T17:00:00
category: Solutions
author:
  name: Martin-Pierre Roset
  image: "mproset"

---

> Gone are the days of rudimentary cron jobs; with microservices, Big Data, and cloud-based solutions, job scheduling needs to be more robust, flexible, and integrated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gone are the days of rudimentary cron jobs. With the rise of microservices, big data, and cloud-native distributed technologies, job scheduling has evolved to meet the needs of modern engineering workflows.
```

> Historically, job scheduling was a straightforward process with cron jobs handling basic scheduling tasks. However as distributed systems have grown more complex, the limitations of these tools have become evident. Some automation and scheduling platforms are adequate for simpler, monolithic architectures, but they haven't evolved significantly to address the modern challenges of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically, job scheduling has often been approached with cron jobs. However, as distributed systems have grown more complex, the limitations of these tools have become evident. Some automation and scheduling platforms are adequate for simpler, monolithic architectures, but they haven't evolved significantly to address the modern challenges of:
```

- Dynamic scaling
- Complex dependencies
- Real-time monitoring
- Fault tolerance
- Cross-platform compatibility

> To help you navigate through this, we'll be exploring a selection of tools in the field. From legacy platforms to next-gen solutions like **[Kestra](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's explore a selection of tools in the field, from legacy platforms to modern solutions such as **[Kestra](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra)**, and discuss how they address those challenges.
```

## Dollar Universe Workload Automation

[Dollar Universe Workload Automation](https://www.broadcom.com/products/software/automation/dollar-universe), a product of Broadcom, is an enterprise-scale scheduling platform designed to manage complex workflows and optimize business processes. The tool provides robust solutions to ensure scheduling across different platforms, including Unix, Windows, and iSeries.

### The API Ecosystem

The tool comes with a set of APIs that are designed to facilitate integrations across a variety of enterprise-level applications. These APIs are developed to function in tandem with both SOAP and RESTful web services. The APIs provide the hooks necessary for linking tasks across multiple platforms and business applications.  

**How it Works**  

> It employs a pretty neat resource allocation and job sequencing to ensure optimal utilization of resources. It allows the scheduler to respond to external events such as file changes, database updates, and system failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It allows the scheduler to respond to external events such as file changes, database updates, and system failures.
```

### Limitations: Areas for Improvement

> there are areas where it shows its age, particularly when compared to more modern scheduling platforms:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are areas where the product shows its age, particularly when compared to more modern scheduling platforms:
```

**Legacy Systems Focus:** The tool is proficient at managing schedules in traditional monolithic environments. However, when it comes to cloud-native or microservices architectures, it falls short. This could be a potential bottleneck for organizations looking to migrate to more modern stacks.

> **Inflexibility in Dynamic Scaling**: Although Dollar Universe offers a range of scalability features, they are optimized for more static, pre-defined enterprise environments. In contrast, the modern expectation is for platforms that can adapt to dynamic, cloud-based infrastructures, dynamically allocating or deallocating resources as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Inflexibility in Dynamic Scaling**: Although Dollar Universe offers a range of scalability features, they are optimized for more static on-prem enterprise environments. In contrast, modern applications expect the platform to adapt to cloud-based infrastructure requirements, dynamically allocating or deallocating resources as needed.
```

Despite its powerful feature set, OpCon is not without its shortcomings:

**Resource Intensiveness**: OpCon's architecture can sometimes require substantial system resources, making it less ideal for smaller environments or cloud-native applications that demand lightweight solutions.

**No Native Support for Modern DevOps Practices:** As a tool that’s been around for a while, OpCon lacks out-of-the-box support for modern DevOps practices like containerization and Infrastructure as Code (IaC), which are becoming industry standards.

While OpCon offers a feature-rich and flexible scheduling solution, it still leans towards traditional IT environments and could benefit from updates to better support modern DevOps practices and cloud-native applications.

## Control-M

[Control-M](https://www.bmc.com/it-solutions/control-m-capabilities.html) is a workload automation software by BMC Software, aimed at integrating various automated processes across multiple platforms and applications. With roots stretching back to mainframe systems, Control-M has evolved to accommodate modern environments, including cloud-based and containerized applications.

### Core Features

> **File Transfer Management**: Control-M offers an advanced file transfer system, allowing users to schedule, transfer, and track files across different platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**File Transfer Management**: Control-M offers a file transfer system that allows users to schedule, transfer, and track files across different platforms.
```

**Batch Processing:** Control-M can manage complex batch workflows, taking care of dependencies, scheduling, and resource allocation.

> **Auditing and Compliance**: Control-M has strong auditing features, providing detailed logs and reports to ensure compliance with various industry standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Auditing and Compliance**: Control-M has auditing features, providing detailed logs and reports to ensure compliance with various industry standards.
```

> **API Capabilities**: Control-M provides a well-documented set of APIs that allow for broad integration across enterprise services. These APIs can integrate with RESTful services, thereby simplifying the development of complex, multi-step workflows…

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**API Capabilities**: Control-M provides APIs that allow for broad integration across enterprise services. These APIs can integrate with RESTful services, thereby simplifying the development of complex, multi-step workflows.
```

### Task-Specific Execution in Complex Flows

> Control-M offers the ability to execute a specific task within a flow. If a task fails, you don't have to rerun the entire operation; you can simply pinpoint and re-trigger the individual task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Control-M offers the ability to execute a specific task within a flow. If a task fails, you don't have to rerun the entire operation; you can rerun the individual task.
```

### How it works

Administrators can use a single interface to schedule, monitor, and manage jobs across different platforms. It supports condition-based job flows, meaning jobs can be set up to trigger based on successful or unsuccessful completion of preceding tasks.

### Where Control-M Could Improve

**Legacy Overhead:** Despite upgrades for modern platforms, the tool carries the weight of its legacy systems focus, which can make it less agile compared to more modern, cloud-native solutions.

> Control-M, while strong in traditional scheduling, sometimes falls short in offering the same level of flexibility and ease for defining complex, conditional workflows. The tool's user interface and scripting requirements can be clunky when trying to orchestrate intricate job dependencies, conditional logic, and data-driven triggers. This could potentially slow down organizations that require agile responses to data conditions. With more modern solutions, you often get a flexible, DSL-based (Domain Specific Language) approach that allows for easier, quicker, and more robust workflow design and management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Control-M, while strong in traditional scheduling, sometimes falls short in offering the same level of flexibility and ease for defining complex, conditional workflows. The tool's user interface and scripting requirements can be clunky when trying to orchestrate complex job dependencies, conditional logic, and data-driven triggers. This can slow down organizations that require agile responses to data conditions. With more modern solutions, you often get a flexible, DSL-based (Domain Specific Language) approach that allows for easier, quicker, and more robust workflow design and management.

Lastly, the tool is prohibitively expensive. The price tag doesn't justify its capabilities compared to alternatives.
```

I think it's worth mentioning the main reason for folks to migrate away from those legacy systems: they are way too expensive for their limited and clunky functionality.

### **Technical Overview: Scheduling Flows with Kestra**

> ### Scheduling with Kestra?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Scheduling with Kestra
```

> [Kestra](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra) offers a feature that lets you schedule the execution of your flows based on cron expressions. It's particularly useful when you can't rely on event triggers and need a flow to execute at specific times.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kestra](https://github.com/kestra-io/kestra) lets you schedule your flows based on a simple cron expression, as well as based on complex scheduling conditions. It's useful when you want to run a flow at a regular cadence, e.g. daily or hourly.
```

### How Does it Work?

> When you define a schedule, Kestra keeps track of the last execution date. This ensures that changing the cron expression won't restart all previous executions. If you change the schedule ID, Kestra will treat it as a new schedule, resetting the last execution date and re-executing all past scheduled events, if backfill exists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you define a schedule, Kestra keeps track of the last execution date. This ensures that changing the cron expression won't restart all previous executions. If you change the schedule ID, Kestra will treat it as a new schedule. If you add a backfill, Kestra will execute the flow for all past schedules.
```

**Basic Schedule**

Here's how you can schedule a flow to run every 15 minutes.

```yaml
yamlCopy code
triggers:
  - id: schedule
    type: io.kestra.core.models.triggers.types.Schedule
    cron: "*/15 * * * *"

```

> **Schedule with Nickname**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Scheduling expressions: daily, hourly, weekly**
```

> Kestra also supports named cron expressions, which can simplify your configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kestra also supports named expressions, which can simplify your configuration.
```

```yaml

> yamlCopy code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

triggers:
  - id: schedule
    type: io.kestra.core.models.triggers.types.Schedule
    cron: "@hourly"

```

**Complex Schedule**

> You can make your schedules more intricate using conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more complex scheduling needs, use `conditions`.
```

```yaml

> yamlCopy code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

triggers:
  - id: schedule
    cron: "0 11 * * 1"
    scheduleConditions:
      - id: monday
        date: "{{ trigger.date }}"
        dayOfWeek: "MONDAY"
        dayInMonth: "FIRST"

```

### Backfill Support

> When a workflow is missed or fails, Kestra's Backfill feature triggers an automatic rerun for that particular set of tasks. This ensures continuity in your data pipeline, filling any gaps that may have occurred due to scheduling mishaps or system failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a workflow execution is missed or fails, Kestra's Backfill feature can automatically trigger an automatic rerun for that particular set of tasks. This ensures continuity in your workflow, filling any gaps that may have occurred due to scheduling mishaps or system failures.
```

 **Schedule with Backfill**

> If you need the flow to make up for missed runs from a specific date, you can use a backfill.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need the flow to make up for missed runs from a specific date, you can configure a `backfill`.
```

```yaml

> yamlCopy code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

triggers:
  - id: schedule
    type: io.kestra.core.models.triggers.types.Schedule
    cron: "*/15 * * * *"
    backfill:

>       start: 2020-06-25T14:00:00Z

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      start: 2023-10-17T14:00:00Z
```

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

::alert{type="info"}
The examples above show how Kestra allows you to keep the entire scheduling logic in code. For more examples of how Kestra brings Infrastructure as Code best practices to all workflows, check the [CI/CD guide](https://kestra.io/docs/developer-guide/cicd). See it in action by following the [getting started guide](https://kestra.io/docs/getting-started).
```

Reviewer: otherwise it's not clear why you showed all the code examples

### What's Next

> As we've seen, the right tool for your scheduling needs depends on a variety of factors, from the scale and complexity of your tasks to the architecture of your system. While traditional tools like Dollar Universe and OpCon have strong features, Kestra is multimodal and allows 100% flexibility in your workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we've seen, the right tool for your scheduling needs depends on a variety of factors, from the scale and complexity of your tasks to the architecture of your system. While traditional tools like Dollar Universe and OpCon have many useful features, Kestra provides more flexibility and brings Infrastructure as Code best practices to all scheduled and event-driven workflows.
```
